
So another realization, if I might even call it that. Sooooo, I was keeping notes about what I am learning in the Google IT Support course, not to mention I stopped for 9 days without any real reason, but that’s another thing. I realized, like sure, I can vaguely remember what I learned, and let’s just be honest, it’s not that heavy of a course to begin with. Most of the info is very specific, and you probably don’t really need to memorize it, but the stuff that I probably would like to retain, like networking topics and stuff like that, I can’t really recall. It’s literally like in school: after you do the exams, sure, you “learned” it, then forget it after the exam. So like, what is the point? I mean, some of it I straight up forgot.

I was looking online and the OSI model was mentioned, and I was like, “wait, what is the OSI model?” Looked it up on Google and I was like, “OHHHHH THIS, I KNOW THIS.” Then I realized, I don’t _know_ it, I can recognize it — BIG difference. Like if you’re applying for an interview and you get asked about it, it’ll be even more awkward and cringe. It’s like someone asking you, “oh, do you know what TCP/IP is?” and you’re like, “yeah, I learned it,” and then they’re like, “nice, can you explain to me how it works?” and you’re like, “wellllllllllllllllllllllllllll.”

Not to diss on people, but it’s literally what is happening to everyone now. I am not a CS student, but people are finishing CS degrees that they are wasting 4 years of their life on, and then they get out and don’t even know stuff they learned, like networking 101. A lot of people might argue, “bro, you don’t need to memorize that stuff, you can always look it up,” and that is like a razor-edge: kinda right, kinda wrong, depending on what depth we’re talking about and how much you’re expected to know the thing you’re talking about. Like if you’re, let’s say, applying for a backend job, you’re probably expected to know what TCP/IP is in general, but not the inner workings of it. But if you’re applying to a network job, then they probably expect you to know that, and thaaaaaaaat’s why you should probably know it anyway.

So I don’t know, I should maybe do self-explanation to a friend or something and explain stuff every week or so so I don’t forget it. But it’s a weird thing that I caught early, and I don’t want to end up like others, wasting my time learning all of this just to end up with nothing to show for it. And again, Coursera courses are a weird thing where they do have actual knowledge that can be gained from them, but are not really respected, like something similar to CompTIA A+. But even then, I think even someone who passes A+ probably forgets about it later. And we can argue that nobody can retain stuff forever, you can’t retain 100% of everything, but you should at least still have a very good idea about what you are talking about. So yeah, just a random thought I got.